for this event you will be tenoning this
piece of basically construction lumber
that's been planed down to an inch and a
quarter by three inches and you will be
cutting a tenon on it that will be three
inches long and a half an inch right now
let's say you get a square and a saw in
a marking gauge and we may add in
another saw and there'll be some way to
measure the three inches and you
probably get a knife and a pencil you'll
be using an 18 inch back saw I think
they're 10 or 11 you will be time and
scored for accuracy you will grab your
lying around three inches
saw your shoulder first you can saw
two people have a pencil line
you won't be given a shoulder blade so
once you're done
and I will have special devices for the
judges to use to test to check for
square find your shoulders and also for
how actually you are in thickness okay